Hire and this module we're going to look at the code for the global and local scopes.
First I want to point out that when you have a notebook like this then it is actually running inside
a module.
It is a module.
So when I type this line of code equals 10 I've essentially created a global variable to the notebook
or to the module.
It's no different than if I had gone to maybe PI charm and I've got a module and I type A equals 10
in here and then I can print.
Right.
It is a equals 10 is now a global variable it's scope globally which means it has a module scope so
far on this.
We get what we would expect.
It prints out 10.
All right.
So this is really no different.
So don't get confused by the fact that I'm running this inside a notebook.
It doesn't make any difference.
It's for a module.
So let's switch back to the notebook.
So now obviously we have this global variable and it's global.
Let's say we define a function my function.
And so it's a parameter N and then we say C equals and to the power of two.
So we're squaring and then we're going to return that value c..
Now what we have here my fonk has two local variables.
C is obviously local because we're assigning a value to this label inside the function.
So it's determined to be local to my phone.
And then any parameter is also a local label so and lives in the local scope of my phunk.
Now my phunk can access the global variables as well.
So if we say def my funk and we'll keep it it's as before.
But now I'm going to print.
I'm going to say global A.
And we're going to retrieve the value of A.
You'll notice that this is not an assignment.
I'm retrieving the value of A.
I haven't assigned anything to a in my phone which means that Python will say OK it has to be somewhere
in you know a scope above it.
In this case my funk is in the global scope directly.
So it's going to look in the global scope.
And then the built in scope if it doesn't find it there and if it doesn't find it in the built in scope
then we'll get an error.
So now we can also say C equals 8 to the power of an arm.
That's fine we can access it.
Right.
We're not assigning a value to h here.
And then returns C..
So now if we call my fonk let's say of two then we get global a tense or printed that out and it returns
C which was turned to the power of two 100 k now.
You gotta be careful if you want to assign a value inside the function because if we do this then my
phunk do the same thing again.
And here I'm going to say April 20 and then I'm going to say sequels to the car and and return seat.
OK then what happens here is that I've assigned a value to pay.
So if we look at the value of a currently.
And remember now this line of code is being executed in the module.
So it's going to look at the global variable 8 which has a value of 10.
If I call my func with a value of 2 and it's 2 inside my phone it's going to set eight to 20 k and then
we return that value.
But let's look at the value of pay again.
It is top 10 this line of code right here equals 20 did not modify the global variable because Python
so on assignment and said aha this is an assignment.
I didn't see a global keyword anywhere.
So a is going to become a local variable.
So essentially what happens here is that inside my phunk is a local variable which essentially masked
or shadowed the outer scope variable A and you can no longer see that variable inside my phunk something
to be careful.
So if we want to access and modify the global variable we have to tell Python explicitly that this is
going to refer to the global variable.
So we would have to say def my funk and let's keep it exactly the same.
The only difference is I'm going to now put this line in global A and then said equals 20.
C equals age of the power and return C K.
So now if I call or if I print out a my my phone hasn't run yet.
Right.
So nothing's changed.
But if I call my phone value of two and it returns 400 just as before.
But now look at what happens when I print out 8 is now indeed 20 which was what I changed it to from
inside the my phone function.
When you use the global P-word the global variable doesn't actually even have to exist.
Let's see what I mean by that because if my phone I'm not going to put any parameters will simplify
it.
Now a little bit and I'm going to call this I'm going to say hey I've got a global variable called.
And then I'm going to assign a value to it say hello world.
OK.
And I'm just going to return nothing.
So now if I print out the value of the well that doesn't exist right.
Yes.
Because we never defined var in the module we never said var equals something or other.
However if we now run my funk and nothing happens because we don't return anything.
But look at what happens when I print out the value of.
Now it exists.
What happened is that Python saw this and said OK this is a global variable.
Then we assigned a value to it very happily did it.
Sure.
So it created the variable in the global scope assigned a value to it and then we returned out of the
function.
And because it was global that variable label is still available and still points to whatever this was
pointing to before.
Now there is something you have to be careful of and that is the fact that you use the global keyword
if you use it anywhere in the function Python we'll then say this functions.
The variable is global.
No matter where else you use it in the function itself.
So what do I mean by that.
Well let's say we have a global variable let's say equals 10 and let's go ahead and define my funk.
And here what I'm going to do is I'm going to say print global pay OK.
So now if we run my funk then it just prints equals 10.
OK.
Well and good.
Now let's say I go ahead and say global A.
And then a equals Hello.
OK.
Now if I call my phone.
What's happening.
Remember is going to be global.
Right.
So now we're assigning hello to the global variable A and then we're printing up the global variable.
So we print out hello and if we now look at pay it's value is indeed hello.
But let's say we had this let's say we have a equals 10.
I'll do that again I'll reset it back to 10 and let's create this function and let's print out the global
value of a
cake.
So now we're printing out a now eight isn't it.
We don't have a global that you know that we defined for.
So I'm going to look at a and say well you're using this variable without assigning to it first.
Therefore it can't be local scope.
It's going to be in the global scope.
So it's going to look for it in the global scope.
In this case and when we do this let's say we go ahead and say now eight equals Hello.
And as we said before it's too Akos how in the world.
And now let's print again and let's call my funk.
So what do you think is going to happen.
We're going to print out the value of the global value which is 10.
Then we're going to change data.
Hello world.
Right.
And of course this is going to become a local variable at that point and then we're going to print a
lot.
And so we shouldn't have affected the global variable.
And let's see what happens and we get an error can we get this local variable.
A It was referenced before the assignment.
Well yes what happens remember is that Python determines at compile time compile time happens here when
I get my shift enter on this function.
OK.
Now it's created the function my phunk not exists.
It's been compiled it hasn't been executed yet.
OK.
That's why nothing happens here.
After I run this ok after I essentially create the function.
Nothing's happened yet.
I have to call the function now.
But at compile time python looked at this and said OK is going to be local because here I have an assignment
and I didn't say it was global.
So it's local.
So now when the function runs it looks for a in the local scope and it doesn't find it and yet it was
marked as a local variable.
Hence why when you call it it says no you can't do that right.
You get a local variable is referenced before assignment.
It's just as if I'd been in my module and I said print B.
Well I never defined B right.
I get the same kind of Arutz as no right.
B is not defined.
It's the same kind of thing here.
So watch out for that if you have a piece of code.
Right.
And you make an assignment to a variable even after you've used that supposedly in the global context.
It won't work because they will then be marked as a local variable.
So that's kind of an important thing to remember.
The next thing I want to point out is that this works with lambdas as well lambdas are just functions
so if you do something like maybe F equals Lambda Lambda takes some variable n Right.
And it's going to say print a to the power of N K.
Now I can print half of two and I get 10 to the power 2 which is 100.
It was able to reference the global variable.
Now of course we can do all this stuff with marking things as global and then assigning values to it
because lammed is a little bit different right.
You really only have a single thing that you can do right.
A single statement but it works the same way a lambda is just another function.
The other thing too is that functions are objects and functions have names.
So they also reside in a scope somewhere.
So when you look when you say that say print hello right or even Let's do one like this print true.
It prints out this value here the string.
True what happened.
Well print was a function.
It's got to be defined somewhere.
So Python for us looks for it in the local scope in this case the module scope doesn't find it.
OK.
Well let's look one level up.
So it looks in the built in scope and fortunately print is in the built in scope.
So it sounds you know it found the function.
Next was true.
Well again it looked for true in the local scope.
No current local scope which is our module scope on global scope.
It doesn't find it there.
So it looks in the built in scope.
This means of course that you can do things that redefine for example functions.
So for example let's say we do this let's say we say print equals and let's just use a lambda.
When you don't have to use the lambda you could just say def print right.
And that's going to take X and it's going to return.
Hello X.
Right whatever X was
like so.
So if I see print world k what does it do.
It actually returns the string Hello world.
Right.
You'll notice that this wasn't actually the print function.
Right the print function remember can take multiple parameters so if you put let's say hello world that
get we get an error.
Because print takes one positional document which of course that's all function print here.
So be careful with reusing built in names because you're essentially going to replace the functionality
or whatever that you know built in does.
So right now we can't print anything out because we've lost the print function it's now using our own
print function.
So how do we get it back.
Well we can delete the variable.
And so we're going to delete those variable label called printf and now it's going to go out of scope
and not if we say print world it's just going to print world right.
It's gone back to the regular print function.
One last thing I want to talk about.
And that's really more applicable if you've worked in other programming languages like Java and.
And you know maybe C-Sharp the these there's also there are additional scopes within your code that
that occur and they occur within something called code blocks.
So for example if you have a and let me switch now to kind of a code example obviously I can't execute
Java here but let's say I write this for int i call 0 I's less than 10 I plus plus.
And so we have the loop and inside the slope we define a variable called X and we make it let's say
two to the two times I get.
Now if we go out here and we say System outsprint l n x this would around.
Because what happens here is that this variable x has been created inside this loop's code block and
it is therefore local to the code block.
It is not global that it doesn't live outside of the code block even though this is directly you'll
notice in my module right or in my class if you're working in Java.
And so you might be asking yourself why does the same thing happen in Python if I've got a full loop
and I declare a variable inside the full loop.
Does it then become available outside of the for loop and let's say I'm running this directly in the
global module.
Well the equivalent would be in Python to say for I think in range 10 right.
And then here will say X equals two times I k.
And so if we execute that that Ramm don't show any output but it ran.
However what happens now is that X actually does exist outside and after the field is finished running.
So it's not quite the same.
It's not like you have variables that go in and out of scope.
Inside the inside your code block that's inside the loop for example or an if statement even.
Right.
So if you're used to other programming languages be careful doesn't work the same way in Python.
All right thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.